Report to CEO

Motivation With the opening of the new "Pizza Galore" pizzeria a couple month ago, we have begun to see a concerning drop in delivery orders. For this reason, our marketing strategy must change. Rather than simply reminding our customers that we are here, and that our food is good (which it is), we should also consider providing more details about what makes us stand out when choosing between us and our new competitor. Initial Focus There will likely be a number of topics worth addressing as we continue to build out our marketing campaign. 
In this initial phase my recommendation would be to focus on answering two questions for our customers: 
1. Is our store less accessible (both in delivery speed and order pickup) due to it being further away from the central square of the town? 
2. Does our store provide a diverse range of options (types of pizzas, desserts, etc) 
Data To drive this new marketing strategy, I propose we develop a "profile" for both our company and our competitor by collecting the following quantitative variables: 
1. Delivery Speed (Only for our company) 
2. Number of pickup orders (Only for our company) 
3. Customer Satisfaction (Only for our company) 
4. Number of specialty pizzas (Both companies) 
5. Number of toppings (Both companies) 
6. Number of available desserts (Both companies) 
Data Collection In terms of collecting these variables, items 4,5, and 6 are relatively straight forward, and can be collected from a quick analysis of each store's menus. To ensure our store can begin their marketing sooner rather than later, I recommend we first focus on these three variables while we develop and implement a sampling design for items 1,2, and 3. To collect the data of item 1, we will need to implement a better tracking procedure for delivery times by first developing a reliable way for delivery drivers to report the time at which a delivery has been completed. Additionally, I advise against measuring delivery times based on when the delivery itself begins. From the customer's point of view, delivery time is measured by how long it takes to receive their order from the moment they have completed submitting it. For this reason, cooking time should be measured and included in the overall delivery time.
To collect the data for item 2, we should begin tracking pickup orders beyond just their economic figures. We should focus on collecting the time of each transaction, whether or not the order was a "walk in" order, or if the customer placed the order ahead of time. We should also collect the details of these orders tot better assess what products our walk-in/pickup customers are most attracted to. To collect the data for item 3, we must first develop a set of questions that best capture our customers' satisfaction. Once those questions have been developed, we must then decide on an alpha, power, and sample size in conversation with the amount of time we would like to allot for this survey.
